Well, before his death,
Jesus warned all of those
who would be his followers in the future
that they would be objects of persecution.
In Matthew chapter 10,
do you remember what Jesus said?
Let’s read this together, Matthew 10:22:
“And you will be hated.”
Verse 22: “And you will be hated
by all people on account of my name,
“but the one who has endured
to the end will be saved.
“When they persecute you in one city,
flee to another;
“for truly I say to you, you will by no means
“complete the circuit of the cities of Israel
until the Son of man arrives.”
Well, interestingly, almost immediately
after the holy spirit had been poured out
and Jehovah began to select
his anointed congregation,
those newly anointed disciples
became the targets
of intense persecution.
Do you remember what happened
in Acts chapter 4?
Let’s read this, Acts 4:1, it says:
“While the two were speaking to the people,
“the priests, the captain of the temple,
“and the Sadducees came up to them.
“These were annoyed because the apostles
were teaching the people
“and were openly declaring
the resurrection of Jesus from the dead.
“So they seized them
and took them into custody
until the next day,
for it was already evening.”
And then, if you turn over
to chapter 5 and verse 17,
we remember the words, it says:
“But the high priest rose,
and all those with him,
“who were of the sect of the Sadducees,
and they were filled with jealousy.
And they seized the apostles
and put them in the public jail.”
Well, that’s the beginning.
That’s the very, very beginning
of the Christian congregation
—intense persecution right from day one.
Well, roughly, about 25 years later,
in about the year 59 C.E.,
when the apostle Paul arrived in Rome,
by that time the prominent Jews
in the city that Paul met with
had heard much
about the early Christians.
Do you remember what they said?
Acts 28:22,
it says—
These prominent Jews said to Paul:
“But we think it proper to hear
from you what your thoughts are,
“for truly as regards this sect,
we know
that it is spoken against everywhere.”
Isn’t that interesting?
So they called it a “sect,”
and they said
it was “spoken against everywhere.”
Well, what were
some of the accusations
that were brought
against the early Christians?
Well, writing of the Christians
in that first-century period
in the Roman Empire,
historian K. S. Latourette said this:
“The accusations varied.
“Because they refused
to participate in pagan ceremonies
“the Christians were dubbed atheists.
“Through their abstention
from much of community life
“—the pagan festivals,
the public amusements . . .
“—they were derided
as haters of the human race.
“The fact that
[the Memorial of Christ’s death]
“was celebrated
only in the presence of believers
“fed the rumours that Christians
regularly sacrificed an infant
and consumed its blood and flesh.”
In addition,
because the early Christians
refused to practice emperor worship,
they were accused
of being enemies of the State.
Well, does all that sound familiar?
We’ve heard things
much like that recently, haven’t we?
Well, much time has passed
since these events in the first century,
but the murderous hatred
that Satan the Devil has
for all faithful servants of Jehovah God
is still very much active on this earth.
And we’re not surprised by that.
Do you remember
what Revelation 12:17 says?
Let’s read it.
Revelation 12:17, it says:
“So the dragon
became enraged at the woman
“and went off to wage war
with the remaining ones of her offspring,
“who observe the commandments of God
and have the work
of bearing witness concerning Jesus.”
Well, do you see the point?
You see,
as a result of remaining faithful,
the remaining anointed ones
who are on the earth
and all of those
who associate with them
and who support them
in their work are in a war
—a literal war
against Satan the Devil
and the wicked spirit forces.
Now, recently,
we’ve seen the Devil’s attack
on Jehovah’s people
in the country of Russia.
Just yesterday
the Interfax News Agency reported
that Metropolitan Hilarion,
head of the Russian Orthodox Synodal
Department for External Church Relations,
said this:
“Jehovah’s Witnesses do not believe
“in Jesus Christ as the God and the Savior.
“They do not recognize
the doctrine of the Trinity.
Therefore, they cannot be called Christians.”
He stated that he welcomed
the court ruling
of the Russian Supreme Court
and suggested that the pernicious
and harmful influence
of Jehovah’s Witnesses
would now start to decline.
Wow!
Can you hear the hatred
of the Devil in those comments?
But just as there
have always been opposers
of Jehovah’s faithful servants,
there have also been
individuals like Gamaliel
that Jehovah has raised up
who have come
to the defense of Jehovah’s people.
Now, some of these people
do not love Jehovah’s Witnesses.
But for their own purposes,
they’re willing to defend God’s people.
Just take this example:
Andre Kuraev, a Protodeacon
of the Russian Orthodox Church
and a professor
of their spiritual academy in Moscow.
He’s a very, very outspoken critic
of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
But after the decision
of the Russian Supreme Court,
this is what he said:
“I argued that State agencies
should not cooperate with this sect,
“and I do not retract my words.
“But to accuse them of extremism,
that is not even funny.
“Such a decision
is nothing other than idiotic,
a waste
to accuse pacifists of extremism.”
Isn’t that something?
Yesterday, it was very amazing to me
to see a news conference in Russia,
where German Chancellor Angela Merkel
was on a podium
with Russian President Vladimir Putin.
There Chancellor Merkel
said that she asked Mr. Putin
to utilize his influence
to protect minority rights
as well as in the case
of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
Well, my eyes almost fell
out of my head
as I saw Chancellor Merkel say that
in the presence
of President Putin of Russia.
Well, there are many others
who are willing
to come to the defense
of Jehovah’s people.
Last week
when I was in Kazakhstan,
a professor came to attend
our talk for the entire country.
He sat right in the front row.
He’s written a book
about Jehovah’s Witnesses
and is very eager always to defend us.
He wanted to speak to me,
and so he came backstage.
We talked for about 15 or 20 minutes,
and he asked me,
“What do you think is the source
of all of these bad reports
about Jehovah’s Witnesses?”
And I said to the professor,
“Well, Professor,
“anyone who truly knows
Jehovah’s Witnesses
“recognizes that all of these accusations
are completely ridiculous.”
Well, the professor looked at me
—and he’s a very distinguished
white-haired man
of probably about 60 or 70 years of age—
and he says to me,
“I know Jehovah’s Witnesses,
and I know
that those charges are ridiculous.”
Isn’t it wonderful
that we have people like this
who are willing to stand up
for God’s people?
Well, in spite of the hatred
that’s been spewed forth by the Devil,
it is amazing to see that persecution
never ever stops God’s faithful servants.
It has never stopped them in the past,
and it will not stop them in the future.
In fact, what did Jesus say here
in Matthew chapter 5?
Matthew 5:11:
“Happy are you
“when people reproach you
and persecute you
“and lyingly say
every sort of wicked thing
“against you for my sake.
“Rejoice and be overjoyed,
“since your reward
is great in the heavens,
for in that way they persecuted
the prophets prior to you.”
Well, that’s the attitude of true Christians.
We know we’re doing the right thing
when we incur the hatred
of these agents of the Devil.
Well, one thing
that brought me joy last week
when I was in Russia
and also in Kazakhstan
was that I heard so many reports
from brothers and sisters
saying that inactive ones,
former Bible students,
relatives of Witnesses
are all contacting the brothers,
wanting to become involved again
in the truth
because of what they see happening
in Russia.
They know the end is close at hand.
So while we keep on praying
on behalf of our brothers
who are being persecuted,
how vital it is, brothers,
that we keep on the watch.
That we continue to watch
what’s happening around the world
—being very alert to world events
and eagerly awaiting the time
when our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ,
will appear and deliver us from this world
that is so firmly in the hands of the Devil.